README.md, before:

DeMix: maximizing peptide identification from cofragmentation
=====

##### Dependent packages:  

Python 2.7  
numpy  
pandas  
lxml  
pymzml http://pymzml.github.io/  
pyteomics http://pythonhosted.org//pyteomics/  
msconvert (ProteoWizard) http://proteowizard.sourceforge.net/index.shtml  
MS-GF+ http://omics.pnl.gov/software/ms-gf  
Java runtime environment  

##### Procedures:

1. msconvert, RAW to mzML.gz, with filter "zeroSample removeExtra 1-2"  ** Note:** do not use "peakPicking" option in msconvert.
2. run_demix_pipeline to execute pipeline under command line (also execute MS-GF+ database searching)

* Note: the default setting of OpenMS parameters are optimized for Thermo Orbitrap Q-Exactive mass spectrometer (**high-resolution**: 70,000 MS1 and 17,500 MS2). Change parameters in OpenMS/TOPP if using data from different instrumental settings.
* Note: the pipeline works with spectra in **profile** mode (both MS1 and MS2), and does peak picking. Modify the TOPP pipeline, if using spectra in centroid mode or mixed.
* Note: change the modification file under the path of MSGFPlus if searching for different PTMs.  
* Caution: many bug reports related to the database searching with MS-GF+. If program fails while calling the subprocess of MS-GF+, please check the Java setting in your system evrionment, and manually excute the command for MS-GF+ generated from the script.

##### Example:
* Windows Command Prompt   
> python C:\GitHub\DeMix\run_demix_pipeline.py -exe "c:\Program Files\OpenMS-1.11\bin\ExecutePipeline.exe" -db c:\DATA\HUMAN.fa -w 4.0 C:\GitHub\DeMix\Example\20131106_Q2_SDC_120MIN_HELA1.mzML.gz

* Linux or OSX Terminal    
> python /home/GitHub/DeMix/run_demix_pipeline.py /home/GitHub/DeMix/Example/20131106_Q2_SDC_120MIN_HELA1.mzML.gz -db /Data/HUMAN.fa -w 4.0 -out_dir DeMixResult

Parameters:
*   -db : Fasta file of proteome sequences (might require writing permit on the path for MS-GF+ indexing)  
*   -w : full width of precursor isolation window, default 4.0   
*   -out_dir : root path for outputs, default: current working path "."   ** Note**: spectra and identification result will be put in: out_dir/TOPPAS_out/004-PeakPickerHiRes/  

* Set these options only for debug purpose:   
-exe : when "ExecutePipeline" is not found in system environment PATH.  
-topp : when the default TOPPAS workflow is not working.  
-trf : when failed generating temporary resource file.  

##### Reference
Zhang, B., Pirmoradian, M., Chernobrovkin, A., & Zubarev, R. A. (2014). DeMix Workflow for Efficient Identification of Co-fragmented Peptides in High Resolution Data-dependent Tandem Mass Spectrometry. Molecular & Cellular Proteomics : MCP. doi:10.1074/mcp.O114.038877
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25100859

Commit message:

Change to TOPP version
Work as an external node under TOPPAS interface;
Automatic detect isolation width.

README.md, after:

DeMix: maximizing peptide identification from cofragmentation
=====


I found it would be much easier for general users (normal people who don't work with command line) to go through the whole pipeline under the graphic interface of OpenMS. So I converted my python script into an external tool to integrate in the TOPPAS platform.


##### Dependent packages:  

__Python 2.7__  
__OpenMS 2.0__   
numpy  
pandas  
lxml  
pymzml http://pymzml.github.io/  
pyteomics http://pythonhosted.org//pyteomics/  
msconvert (ProteoWizard) http://proteowizard.sourceforge.net/index.shtml  


MS-GF+ http://omics.pnl.gov/software/ms-gf  
Java runtime environment  


##### Procedures:

1. Copy the __DeMix.ttd__ config file to the OpenMS installation path. (e.g. C:\Program Files\OpenMS-2.0\share\OpenMS\TOOLS\EXTERNAL)   
2. Open the __DeMixTOPP.toppas__ pipeline and change the parameters for the __two__ processes of MSGFAdaptor as well as the wrapper of DeMix, pointing the executable paths of __MSGFPlus.jar__ and the DeMix python script (__feature_ms2_clone_TOPP2.py__), and also the path to the proteome database in __FASTA__ format.  
3. Load __mzML__ spectra files as the input in the pipeline, then execute the pipeline by pressing F5.  
4. Collect results in the TOPP output folders, including FeatureXML files, text exported feature lists, precursor deconvoluted (cloned) MGF spectra, and the database searching resualt (mzID) from MS-GF+.

__Note__:
* Current version works for centroid spectra. If you start with RAW files recorded in profile mode, please picking centroid peaks by using :
  1. The time consuming but a bit more accurate approach:   
  msconvert of ProteoWizard (zeroSample removeExtra 1- ) and PeakPickerHiRes of OpenMS (-algorithm:signal_to_noise 0)      
  2. the fast approach:   
  msconvert (peakPicking true 1-)


* Please also make sure that Java and Python runtime as well as all dependent packages are installed. Quick check by executing "python feature_ms2_clone_TOPP2.py" under command line.   
* The default parameters are optimized for Thermo Orbitrap Q-Exactive mass spectrometer (__high-resolution__: 70,000 MS1 and 17,500 MS2). Change parameters in TOPP if using data from different instrumental settings.   
* Change the modification file under the path of MSGFPlus if searching for different __PTMs__.  
 * Caution: many bug reports related to the database searching with MS-GF+. If program fails while calling the subprocess of MS-GF+, please check the Java setting in your system environment, and manually execute the command for MS-GF+ generated from the script.


##### Reference
Zhang, B., Pirmoradian, M., Chernobrovkin, A., & Zubarev, R. A. (2014). DeMix Workflow for Efficient Identification of Co-fragmented Peptides in High Resolution Data-dependent Tandem Mass Spectrometry. Molecular & Cellular Proteomics : MCP. doi:10.1074/mcp.O114.038877
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25100859
